EU foreign ministers are meeting today
hoping to agree on a road map to peace
in the Israeli Palestinian conflict the
eu's initiative comes as Israel faces
mounting International pressure to end
its offensive in Gaza at the heart of
their plan is a call for a preparatory
peace conference that would be organized
by the EU Egypt Jordan Saudi Arabia and
the league of Arab n Arab states and the
United States and United Nations would
also be invited to take part Germany's
foreign minister has the only solution
to the conflict is a two-state
solution Israel can only be safe if
Palestinians are safe and if they can
live with
dignity and Palestinians can only be
safe and live with dignity and freedom
if Israel is
safe that is why the two-state solution
is the only solution and all of those
who are not in favor of this have so far
failed to come up with an alternative
solution there can only be peace if
there's peace for all the people living
in the
region I'm joined Now by DW Brussels
correspondent Jack perck reporting from
that meeting of the EU foreign ministers
hi Jack we've just heard an Elena
barbach there demanding a two State
solution is there General agreement
among EU foreign ministers that that
this is the preferred option for peace
in the
region it definitely is and it's been
really interesting as we've seen the
foreign minister enter their meetings
here in Brussels today that they've all
wanted to talk again about this
two-state solution as the key sort of
Cornerstone of EU foreign policy with
regards to everything that's going on in
the Middle East the reason that they
want to talk about that is it because
it's easy for them to come to an
agreement on it that was this has been
an EU position that there needs to be a
two-state solution in the Middle East
for many many years and what we've seen
is divisions among EU members countries
specifically over C for ceasefire how
much pressure should be put on Israel in
order to allow humanitarian Aid into the
Gaza Strip Etc but on this issue of the
two-state solution this is a unified
position already and we're seeing that
messaging really come out strongly as
perhaps some of the divisions amongst
the EU member states have started to
show in recent weeks it's a really
important meeting of foreign ministers
here in Brussels today they don't only
have their 27 members of the European
Union but we've just seen the Israeli
foreign minister Israel GS enter the
room he is going to be speaking to them
as well about the issues and later on in
the day we have the Palestinian foreign
minister arriving as well as the foreign
ministers from other Arab states so that
peace conference that you talked about
that the EU is potentially suggesting
this seems like something of a precursor
whether the EU can get not only EU
countries on board with this conference
but whether they can persuade other
players in this in this issue as well
and Jack I want to ask you about media
report rep we've been seeing that EU
member states will also be discussing
possible consequences for Israel if
prime minister Netanyahu continues to
oppose Palestinian statehood is it
already clear what might be on the table
there not not really at all this
suggestion that the Ft has been
reporting that there could be potential
consequences if Benjamin Netanyahu
didn't get on board with the the two-
State solution idea uh that's it's it's
it's just from a document that was
leaked head of this meeting so many of
the other countries we've pressed some
of the foreign ministers to ask them
what their potential positions would be
on it but they don't want to be drawn
this is the working document that goes
into the meeting what comes out of the
meeting as far as an agreement is
something completely different often
times just back on the two-state
solution issue though and and this sort
of press for uh press for Benjamin
Netanyahu to get on board with that he
himself the prime minister of Israel and
other senior Israeli ministers have not
wanted to talk about the creation of any
sort of State for the Palestinians there
there's been some messaging really
opposed to that uh in the last few weeks
especially and that's as well why
European Union foreign ministers are
wanting to talk about this because they
can not only be unified but it's a
position that they want to impress on
the Israelis as well so they may may be
unified but but how much influence does
the EU really have here I mean we've
seen Israel's most powerful Ally of the
United States trying to convince
Netanyahu unsuccessful in making any
Headway that a two-state solution would
be the right response can the EU make a
bigger
impact it's I think there's there's no
Illusions or delusions here in Brussels
that the United States is really the
power player uh when it comes to Israel
but they do have strong economic ties
with Israel they also have influence
with in in with Palestinians as well
certain EU countries specifically
countries like smaller count countries
like Cyprus have very strong diplomatic
ties across the Middle East
geographically and historically
obviously so they do know that they do
have diplomatic uh sway as you say the
question of whether they really can
force Israel's hand to bring an end to
the conflict if if that's what uh is
being called for the two-state solution
all of that kind of stuff uh it's
difficult to see but what they'll try
and assert as much power uh on the
visiting ministers as they can today
during these meetings well thank you so
much for those insights that D that is
DW's Brussels correspondent Jack perck
for
us